Network Slicing Side Meeting in IETF98
2017.3.27  18:15-21:15, Vevey 1/2, Chicago

Chairs: Stewart Bryant (Huawei), Alex Galis (UCL)

Alex briefly introduces the purpose of the side meeting. 

1.      Introduction and problem statement ,  Alex
  Netslicing is not new, now move fast with 5G.
  Key characteristics of network slicing
  Network slicing work items at IETF
Q&A: None


2.      3GPP 5G network slicing use cases,  Xavier
  Introduce the architecture of NS in 3GPP
  Core network slicing
  RAN slicing: early study indicates mainly by preconfigured
Q&A:
  Omar: In 3GPP, how many slices can be provided on the RAN side?
  Speaker: Don’t know
  Q: Does RAN selects core network slices? 
  Speaker: No. RAN selects the functions of the core, CCNF chooses the core slice.
  Q: Does CCNF provide mobility management function?
  A: Yes.
  John Strassner: Is there a model driven approach to orchestration? Data comes from different parts of the networks. From management or orchestration point of view, have you done modeling of the functions, for interoperability?
  3GPP-IETF liaison person: Be aware that deadline of Phase 1 of 5G in 3GPP is June 2018. The results from IETF should go hand in hand with 3GPP. 
  Q:  the title is use case, but content is more of architecture, would need more use cases to discuss.
  A: there is another use case draft to be presented.
  Hannu: From the presentation, what points are you pointing out for IETF to consider?
  Speaker: No answer for this yet. 


3.Network Slicing use cases,   Kiran
  eMBB: large bandwidth, VR/AR ask for low latency
  uRLLC: latency
  mMTC: 
  other type use case: 
  ask for contribution of use case
Q&A:
  George: from 5G deployment point of view, it is also important to have vertical industry involved.


4. ICN use-case,  Ravi
Q&A:
  Q: Is this pure ICN or over IP?
  A: This is over IP.
  Q: Is SFC used in this slicing use case? 
  A: Not really. User asks for content from some cache. But SFC may not be involved.


5. Network Slicing Architecture,  Liang Geng
  Introduces reference architecture and key components of network slicing
Q&A
  Q: what is the formal definition of network slice?
  A: combined resources of connectivity, network functions, computing, storage and some exposed provisioning. Another definition: Logical segment of networks. 
  Q: slice can be small, medium and large. The current definition is too wide. Can we narrow down a little bit? 
  A: Welcome input to the definition
  Igor: can we define net slice as distributed data centers? 
  A: Need to include DCI. 
  Sue: For dynamic control and management, the recent work on revised datastore etc. in netmod/netconf may be relevant, also the topology and rib models in i2rs and teas, suggest to consider align with these works in next step.


6. Network slicing, technique viewpoints and functional roles,  Pedro
  Requirements: flexibility, plasticity, composability
Q&A: none


7. How to slice network, a slicing for IETF,  Hannu
Q&A
  Q: NFV works on slicing but haven’t seen how that works. How IETF interacts with NFV? Do not reinvent what NFV does. 
  Q: How does dynamic slicing work? 
  A: It is orchestration work
  Jie: What does multi-cites mean? Is low latency slice just one of the use cases?
  A: Multi-site means topology not only p2p, but with customized connectivity. Yes low latency is just one case of transport slice, can be slices with other requirement.
  Q: there is a work being done on multi-domain orchestration and slicing (5GEX).


8. Autonomous Transport network,  Qiang Li
Q&A
  Igor: identify one of the gap: the function to discover, negotiate and abstract the view of the topology, there is related work in teas wg (ACTN).


9. ACTN and slicing,  Gert 
  What is network slicing, and what is not?
  Quote definition of network slicing in NFV 5G white paper
  What slices are not: probably a broadcast mechanism
Q&A: none


10. FPSM in dmm,  Satoru
  Enable separation of data and control plane functions of mobile network
  Coordination between transport and mobile functions/services to form network slice 
Q&A: none


Open discussion: 
1. Any of the topics relevant to IETF? A half in the room agree
2. Who is willing to work on document? Or who is willing to help to scope the work in IETF? Many
3. Should we build the charter for BoF at next IETF? Yes

Dave Allan: Charter is good. Need to identify what is the scope, what is not in the scope of IETF. 

Young: TEAS and ACTN is making progress on network slicing (and telemetry), need to identify gaps 

Geroge: A charter is needed, and write down what is out of scope, and prioritize the work which is needed by other organizations.

David Sinicrope: gap analysis should not only for IETF, but also understand what other people are doing with gap analysis, avoid overlapping with others, may liaison with ITU-T SG13.

Stewart: Finding critical technical points within scope of IETF is important. 

George: IETF needs to provide input to 3GPP

??: The use cases can apply to non-5G and 5G, the scope of our work may not be limited by 3GPP 5G.

5G and non-5G, which use-cases are included in the scope? 

5G – high capacity access network but it takes network and cloud. 

Peter Smith: Even without 5G, we still need an end-to-end network slicing mechanism. 

Kiran: Need to identify what should to be standardized in IETF, the charter.

??: Suggest to make the scope small so can match the pace of 5G requirement on slicing.

Gert: Not sure we share a common view of network slice, would be good to clarify this.

Dave Allan: Not sure IETF needs a unique definition of network slice. Suggest to use industry definition so that IETF can help the industry and find the unique value.   

Gert: Maybe find another term for network slice in IETF.
